Compatibility:

Performance and rendering quality:

In general, MacGLide works best when used in the MacOS X Classic environment. In this case
it can use the MacOS X OpenGL driver to render better quality images, and offers a lot more
features (like anisotropic filtering, Full Scene Antialiasing, etc.).

In MacOS 9, the performance is a little bit better, but the rendering quality is not as good
as in the Classic environment.

Compatibility:

MacGLide has been tested with a lot of several games, and with several
hardware configurations. Below is a list of games and how they do with MacGLide.


Playable Games:

Carmageddon:            Works just fine. There is just a small problem with Exposé and
                        the mouse pointer. To use the mouse, you must set the screen
                        resolution to your desktop size.

Carmageddon Splatpack:  Works just fine. Set the resolution to the desktop resolution
                        to get the mouse pointer working correctly.

Carmageddon 2:          Works fine except that in menus and the loading screen,
                        the colors of the background images are wrong. Otherwise
                        the game is fully playable.

Descent 1 & 2:          Playable, but there are issues with switching from cockpit to map
                        view. The textures become corrupt after a few switches, or the screen
                        behind the cockpit becomes blank (to resolve this you can just switch
                        the view to rear and back)
                        
Descent 3 Demo:	        Works fine, with great graphics. But I have just the demo, and no
                        twin-stick, so I just gave it a quick try.
                        
Deus Ex:                Works fine except the sunglasses of some characters are sometimes 
                        white. The same goes for gun-smoke effects which are displayed
                        all the time (instead just when firing a gun). Sometimes, textured
                        landscape tiles show the wrong textures (or garbage).

DS9 - The Fallen:       Some objects in the intro seem to have problems with transparency.
                        Otherwise the game looks great but I haven't tested it a lot.

Falcon 4.0:             Works just fine. For maximum performance at 1600x1200, choose 800x600
                        in the game menu, and set Resolution=2 in the settings file.

F/A-18 Korea:           Works fine.

Futurecop LAPD:         Works fine except that in version 1.02, the pause screen is corrupt.
                        But you can stick with version 1.0.

Myth The Fallen Lords:  Works fine except when you override the Glide resolution in V1.3
                        or below, the mouse pointer will not work correctly anymore.

Quake 3Dfx:             Works fine.

Rune Demo:              The Demo seems to work fine.

Tomb Raider 1 (Gold):   Works fine. Please note, that the In-Game menu has a black background,
                        except for 640x480, where you can see the dimmed paused game.
                        I believe this is actually a game feature, so don't blame me without
                        screenshots made with real 3Dfx hardware.

Tomb Raider 2 (Gold):   Works fine even with movies enabled with Version TR2 1.03. Earlier
                        versions of TR2 may not display everything as expected.

Tomb Raider 3:          Works fine. 

Unreal:                 Works fine.


Games with issues:

Diablo 2:               In the video driver setup dialog, the 3dfx/Glide options is greyed out
                        and can't be selected. Probably needs 3DfxGlideLib3.x to run properly
                        in 3Dfx mode. However, there's a MacOS X patch available.
                        
Driver 3dfx:            The game doesn't run at all in the MacOS X classic environment.

Waterrace:              Needs 3DfxGlideLib3.x to run properly in 3Dfx mode.


In general, MacGLide works best when used in the MacOS X Classic environment. In this case
it can use the MacOS X OpenGL driver to render better quality images, and offers a lot more
features (like anisotropic filtering, Full Scene Antialiasing, etc.).
In MacOS 9, the performance is a little bit better, but the rendering quality is not as good
as in the Classic environment. There are also problems with loosing textures, and objects are
rendered white after a while (depending on the game and probably the graphics card).


Tested systems on MacOS X:

MacGLide runs on any system with an OpenGL capable graphics card.

So far, I've tested MacGLide myself with the following cards:

- NVidia GeForce 2MX
- NVidia Geforce 4MX
- ATI Radeon 7500
- ATI Radeon 9000
- ATI Mobility Radeon 9200

Reports from other users include:

- NVidia GeForce 4600
- ATI Radeon 9600XT
- ATI Radeon 9800XT

But other cards will likely work without problems, too.


Systems with MacOS 9.22:

On MacOS 9, MacGLide doesn't run very well. The development of MacGLide
is focussed on features available through the Classic environemnt.
As a result, MacOS9 users have to live with the following inconveniences:

- Fog is missing
- In Carmageddon, textured objects loose their texture and are rendered white.
- The MacOS 9.22 OpenGL drivers doesn't support Antialiasing.
- Chromakeying might not work (probably caused by non-working alpha test).
- The alhpatest causes the transparent parts of the cockpit in Descent 1 & 2
  to be rendered opaque, resulting in the game hardly playable in cockpit mode.

If you still want to play your games on MacOS 9.22, here are some more problems
I have encountered on my machines:

NVidia GForce 2MX OpenGL 1.2.2 (MacOS 9.22):

- In Myth, most objects in the game are drawn in the wrong colors.


ATI Rage 128 OpenGL Engine Version 1.1.ATI-5.99 (MacOS 9.22):

- The display in Carmageddon starts to flicker when the race starts.

- The ATI OpenGL 1.1 driver returns 32 bit as the maximum Depth Buffer bits, causing
  display errors. To get a correct display, the maximum number of depth buffer
  bits must explicitely be set to 16 in the ini-file (DepthBufferBits=16).

- Tomb Raider Gold has still zbuffer problems, even with the changed  settings.

- Unreal looks bad when mipmapping is enabled.

- In Myth, the bounding rectangle of most objects in the game ise drawn with the wrong colors

Besides the problems listed above, your game might or might no work perfectly under OS9. But
if you got it working perfectly, let me know. However, the image quality is far better with OSX,
so you should really prefer the Classic environment.

Regards, Jens
